2/26/2026-

It's my first journal entry in this particular folder. It's going to be needed.

Tonight we got everything that we've gotten do so far actually running properly, up until
actually writing to the .nex file, which is where I'll pick back up as I'm quite sleepy.

I'm thinking that I should have openNexFile(); return the collected input back to append and have append write to the actual file.
We should probably consider moving the input collection
out of openNexFile, as well.


2/27/2026-

After some frustration caused not by my code but by CLion itself, I got
input written to the file! It gets collected and then put into a struct and
then printed to the file from the struct.

I think next I should still considering moving the input collection from
within openNexFile, but that can be the next mission.

I came back and did a bit more work and now I have the program properly printing
data to the file. I got the individual associations printed properly albiet I had to
make a small comprise on the delimiter in that I had planned to use a comma to show distinction
between associations within the braces but I found it much easier to switch it to using a space as a
delimiter.

Maybe I'll do some more work tonight, maybe I won't. Maybe I'll work on something else for a bit.

2/28/2026-

I didn't notice last night but I'm encountering some bugginess when writing multiple associations in that
I don't have any logic for handling multi word single associations yet and so if a given association is a
two words with a space between that actually gets treated as one association per word and throws the loop off.

An immediate fix is to change how I'm giving input and use an underscore in place of a blank space but I'm
not planning to just call that the answer.

I'm thinking getline may be a way forward with the input issue but I need to do some more reading first.

I noticed that the bug was really only in the input collection and that it was formatting the data in the file
correctly regardless so I simply moved the printf statement outside of the loop and have the assocations all
entered on one line. Obviously this has issues but i'm still figuring things out, anyway.

This is my first real C project so some patience will need to be had.

We do seem to be appending some random stuff the file now, so. Again, patience.

A leftover fprintf line in openNexFile was causing the issues!

We added some comments and got rid of some unnecessary code, as well.

3/2/2026-

I did a bit of work tonight; I'm kind of regretting not pausing to journal
a bit here and there as I went but it is what it is.

I set up a multidimensional array that's holding delimiters at the moment
and will hold more tokens as time goes by. I wrote out logic for opening the
.nex file created in storage by the source emitter and loading the file
contents into memory and now I'm at the stage where I start checking them
against organizational tokens, methinks.

I'll probably be done for tonight so I can get to sleep before too long.

3/3/2026-

Tonight I didn't do too heavy of lifting, just cleaning up some of the code that
I wrote yesterday and doing some pseudo coding trying to figure out the
lexing process.

All of the pseudocode is in Lexer.c.

I came back and set up a basic AST page as well.

3/4/2026-

Today I began the daunting task of turning yesterday's brainstorming into actual code. I didn't get very far
yet by any measure, but, it's not a race, either.

We started by replacing the split function with a crawler function. We got a few ifs in and now we need to brainstorm
a bit more.

I need to figure out how to 'advance' workingChar until it hits another name token. Really I think I have at
least a basic idea here; we could have an array of letters (Knowing me I'll probably call it alphas or something),
and if the current working char does appear in there, then we know it's a letter, and if it doesn't, then we identify what it is,
which *should* be a nameToken unless there's a mistake in the input. Obviously checking for what it is after identifying what it
isn't entails a bit more than just doing it, but, one step at a time.


We just did a bit more chicken pecking around on the lexing process tonight, just fleshing a bit more out,
nothing being finished or perfect or even necessarily good by any means. It just is, and it is progress.

Forward is forward, even if it's by baby steps.

3/6/2026-

It's nearly 2 AM so I'm not going to be spending much more time here probably, but I just worked on crawler a
bit more. There are pretty detailed notes about what's going on in the comments and not too much of a need
for me to repeat those here, honestly.

Hopefully I'll get to bed at a decent time and be able to put in some more work when i'm awake!

3/7/2026-

It's 3 AM so I am going to attempt to wind down and get to bed soon
but we just spent some time tonight on going back over the in progress
lexing process and trying to smooth it out a bit. We're up to the associator logic
point and, although what I have before that point is yet to be perfect, it is better
than it was yesterday, which is progress, and progress is good.

I have some pretty detailed comments in the actual code that reflect more details about
what's going on in there on a technical level. I just don't really feel like repeating them
in here.

8:19 PM-

I'm back! After sleeping and moving through and enitre day since my last entry. Time is
timey-wimey indeed.

This evening I smoothed out the associations loop and wrote the loop that calls the
associations loop. There's no promise that any of it is good or even works, but.

Progress it is.

The next thing I need to do is smooth out the returns from associations and what I intend
to do with them inside of crawler. I may need to redo the loop that calls associations
now that I think of that.

After that I need to come up with a clean ending for crawler. And then we'll be done
with a basic version of lexing!

3/8/2026-

I ended up coming back and cleaning up crawler a bit since it was getting a little
hard to manage and some things needed some improving. I do believe it to be much
cleaner now!

I also added a basic memory key: association defintion in SymbolTable.

5:55 PM-

I probably won't spend too much time in here today as it's supposed to be my day off
but I was reading The C Programming Language a bit while my chicken bakes in the oven
and it inspired me to code a bit.

I really just worked on associator logic a bit in the associations loop, nothing big
and it isn't even finished yet. Still not nothing either, though!

3/10/2026-

I've been spending some programming time on other things but came in here today
so that I could just keep everything fresh in my mind and made a few small revisions so
far. I'm not really planning on doing a ton in here tonight but I don't want to stay away
from it for too long, either.

I did work on exporting the data from the associations loop from within a bit, so. There's a bit
of progress for tonight.


3/11/2026, 12:15 AM-
I also went back and added commas between associations back to the source generator because
they're useful and i'm not sure why I was so intimidated by handling not placing a comma
on the last one. It was very simple.

I put the source generator into it's own .c/.h and made main into an actual proper main
that's initiating the other files.

We actually found a rough end point for the crawler process and now I'm trying to get the
process running as intended. Right now it's breaking a few levels into the process but
that's okay; honestly I'm surprised it got as far as it did first try!

It seems we're having difficulty at the first wC assignment as that's where my debug
statments are failing at. I really don't think that it'll be too big of an issue to figure
out but I might wait for tomorrow as I really should be winding down for bed.

We'll see, I guess.

Also I was thinking and is it really nessecary for me to use a semi colon line end delimiter
here? When I could realisitcally just use \n as a delimiter itself.

1:41 AM-
I was gonna go to bed but here I am; I just really want to get this lexing process working.

We got the first wC check to print but we didn't get the next debug statement to print after. I really want to figure
out why but I also really needt o get to sleep, so.

I should probably go with sleep and come back at it fresh tomorrow.

We got all the way to the first letter check! Which seems to be an infinite loop.

I truly need to stop for the night now.

Fixed the loop.


Right now our issue is that we forgot to build increment to actually return tracker. If I can't find a way to keep
it a one line declaration and return both wC and tracker then it's not worth implementing.

I guess making tracker global would work.

12:00 PM (Exactly)-

^^^ Shit like that is what I get for programming while tired.

9:24 PM-
I was actually in here earlier today but it seems I forgot to journal.

I did make tracker a global variable, and now it seems i'm hung up in the letter check.

More when I have more to journal.

I straightened out the mismtaches with the character constants and string literals; I just switched everything
to a character constant. I set up SymbolTable.h a bit differently in repsonse to the changes.

I am still having trouble successfully getting through the lexing crawl and I'm getting redlines that I can't
explain in the associations loop but i'm still pretty confident in saying I'm only a few days away from a finished
lexer and that's very exciting!

3/12/2026-

The issue was that I made tracker global but still required it as a parameter for increment so
tracker = 0 was being used as the argument every time. But I got that fixed and now we
can move on with the lexing process!

I also went through and cleaned up and added more comments for clarity's sake.

3/14/2026-

Tonight I've cleaned up the lexer a bit, getting rid of some logic bugs, unnecessary code,
and cleaning up the unmanageable terminal output. My debugging was getting slightly
out of hand.

I've gotten father in the process! As of the last run, we made as far as the second letter
of the first memory key! There's still a bit more to go but it's the farthest we've been
thus far and quite exciting.

I went back and removed the first for loop because I realized it was wrong. Right now as of
line 203 wC is iterating through everything, it's just the checking logic behind it that
needs worked on now. But alas I am getting tired and don't want to write a bunch of code
that i'll have to fix later.

I think the issue is in our letter check. It's just if wC == alphas[i], which, the
first time around will always be alphas[0], which is 'a'.

Yeah, that's exactly what's happening; everything else in the for loop is
within the if wC == alphas[i] which means it's just looping back to line 203 for
each line because it's not triggering alphas.

Going into alphas and changing the first char to T, the first char in the test input,
confirms this.

I'll give this some thinking.

3/15/2026-

1:16 AM-
thoughts:

What if I put all of the letters to check for into one array element
instead of individual array elements? Would it check true the first time then?


3/16/2026-

It turns out the answer was isalpha from ctype.h, I just didn't know that even existed the last time I was in
here. I am still only like a month into learning this language!

Anyway i got a bit farther into the lexing process today, actually recognizing some letters and I fixed up wC
usage within the assocations loop. This morning was solid progress! But I've already been programming for hours
overall at this point as I was working on Parts&Stock before this and I have other things to do today as well,
so, divide my time I must.

Hopefully i'll be back here later tonight!

3/17/2026-

The last 24 hours haven't really gone as I'd wanted so it's late and I'm just doing some light work;
I moved all of the if statements inside of crawler into a nice and tidy switch statement that is far less
of a headache and it actually gave the information that at some point it is hitting the
default case which it should not be as that indicates that it at some point is not able
to recognize wC as anything at all. But it is more information to move forward with than
I had whenever I started and a place to pick back up at tomorrow!

3/18/2026-

It's the middle of the night and I should be asleep so of course I decided to look at the code
a bit more and I made a few more changes that at least got us farther into the lexing process;
we moved the closing brace on the opening if (isalpha(wC) != true) and added an
if (isalpha(wC) != true && memoryKeyBool == true) after for conditional handling which
got us farther in the process. I don't know why I'm still seeing the repeating char at the end
but maybe tomorrow I'll figure it out.

LoopTracker should be of assistance. I should really wind down for bed though.

Actually, it already showed me a lot tonight; I somehow got some wires crossed and
had two different strategies going. The for loop would work for looping through the file
one char at a time and running a single process each time but that's not what crawler does,
hence the name. Running crawler one time should lex the entire file, so doing a for
loop the size of the file is not the move.

Kinda embarassed it took me so long to see what I was doing.

Anyway.

I threw a while loop around the switch because I realized the switch choice doesn't hold up
as well without the for loop and got a pretty gnarly sigsegv so, that really should be both
my cue to wrap up tonight and where to start again tomorrow/later.

3/19/2026-

We're back! I just got a pretty crazy printout to the terminal to start haha, literally thousands of lines but it's a good starting point;
it seems we're reading through the file and then some, so. That's where we start!

Okay, I got things calmed down and in a bit better place. It seems that right now whenever we reach the while loop we aren't quite at the char we're expecting so the lexer
just can't proceed correctly from there. So, I need to identify the discrepancy, and then handle logic flow a bit better around the while loop.

I ended up pretty much doing a total refactor of the assocations loop which was dearly needed. I still have more work to do
but I'm closer! When we get back i'm going back to the switch in the crawler.

3/21/2026-

I've been tweaking little bugs in the flow and now I've got the crawler switch actually running
and routing to cases; the way that the nametoken case was being handled was no good so
that's where I'm at now.

Honestly I think I need to isolate the associator logic from the associations loop.

I did that and moved workingAssociator the Breakdown struct and went back and did the
same for associations so that neither function needs to return anything, they can
both just be called with the current set or arguments for that pass and then interact
with the structs.

3/22/2026-

12:42 AM-

For some reason line 292 is now printing e (it wasnt when I started tonight), so that's
where I should probably pick back up when I'm fresh. For now I'm tired and frustrated so
that's probably a good stopping point.